[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>REGINA MEREDITH: There is
not a more eloquent person
I know when it comes to sharing
spiritual wisdom than Raymond
Tarpley, a true American shaman.
He has been a favorite
with our viewers
because he brings a level of
truth and refinement seldom
seen in today's world.
And today, we're going to
speak about many things,
including the need to call
forth our real self and eschew
institutions.
And that's how this
one got my attention.
Yay.
Let's bring them down,
burn the house down.
I shouldn't say that.
I know I'm a bit
of an anarchist.
But welcome again, Raymond.
>>RAYMOND TARPEY:
Thank you, Gina.
What a pleasure to
be with you again.
>>REGINA: And here we are.
And this day is the 19th--
recording on the 19th,
and this is a special day.
>>TARPEY: Yes.
>>REGINA: Tell us about the
19th and the significance.
>>TARPEY: Well, the two sacred
numbers of the Mayan calendar
are 13 and 20.
13 became the standard
of the United States
because by happenstance, they
wound up with 13 colonies,
and I think they
really wanted 12.
>>REGINA: OK.
>>TARPEY: And then the 19--
the other number, 20 20 is
the flowering of the shaman.
>>REGINA: How does
19 factor in here?
>>TARPEY: The 19
is the apprentice.
So I still consider
myself an apprentice.
>>REGINA: Oh, I was
thinking, no, I'm
the apprentice
sitting at your feet.
>>TARPEY: We are all
apprentices, I think.
And there are so many
levels of shamanship,
because we are coming again
and again into the world,
and we have to rise
to the level where
we're going to be
able to establish
peace and justice on every
square inch of this planet.
That's the job.
>>REGINA: That's a
tall task, and we're
going to get into
what it's going
to take to get there as we
continue in the conversation.
But first, the elephant in the
room is actually the crystal
skull in the room we cannot
go without mentioning.
His name is Earth Keeper.
>>TARPEY: Earth Keeper.
>>REGINA: And we're going
to talk about Earth Keeper's
presence in your life and
how that happened, but also,
he's just-- the energy
is blasting off of him,
so I'm just trying
to stay conscious,
alert in his presence.
So tell us a little
bit about Earth Keeper.
>>TARPEY: Well, Earth Keeper--
>>REGINA: Who he is,
where he came from,
and how he came to you.
>>TARPEY: Well, Earth Keeper
is made of agate crystal,
and Earth Keeper was
presented to me by two people,
one man from Germany,
the other lady from Peru.
So one European, one
American, so to speak,
born in the Americas.
And while I was lecturing, they
said, he wants to be with you.
And so they put--
I had them put them on the--
put him on the table
where I was speaking,
and then they came back later
on at 4 o'clock and said,
he still wants to be with you.
Would you become his caretaker?
And I said, uh, uh.
[LAUGHS] It was one of the most
amazing moments of my life.
>>REGINA: And this happened--
because that's when I met you.
I may have met you that day.
>>TARPEY: Yes, yes.
>>REGINA: Either that day
or the following day's
when we first met.
>>TARPEY: 11-11-11.
Yes.
>>REGINA: I was at
that conference.
>>TARPEY: And here
we are 11 again.
>>REGINA: And I remember you
were, as the British say,
gobsmacked that
this had happened,
and I met you right after
you were given Earth Keeper.
>>TARPEY: Yep.
>>REGINA: And you had no idea
what would commence after that.
>>TARPEY: No.
I had no idea.
I was using the
Mayan calendar, and I
was talking about what I had
learned from Mayan history
and from the Popol Vuh,
one of the main sources
of the Mayan testimony, spirit
testimony of a culture that
existed at the crossroads
between Atlantis
and Mu Lemuria
and the thin place
in between the two big
pieces of the Americas.
And so it's sort of
by their very position
they're appointed to have a
special place in our spirit
heritage.
>>REGINA: Now, was he
one of the 12 skulls
that had been
identified at that time
that the elders from mostly
central and South America
possessed, and a
couple of Americans?
>>TARPEY: It is a
legend of the 13 skulls
when they come together.
And 13 is-- the meaning of
13 is mainly transformation,
to transform.
And the number 13 is sacred.
The Maya seem to have
seen it because they
looked at the human body and saw
13 joints, three in each arm,
three in each leg, and the neck.
And they saw it in the
growth patterns of plants,
where you'd have five
revolutions and eight leaves.
Most plants grow in that way.
That's the Fibonacci sequence.
>>REGINA: So to them, 13
became a sacred number.
>>TARPEY: It became
a sacred number
because they're
observing nature.
It's not just observing the
sky for their astrology.
All of nature is their
astrology, so it's natureology.
And so everything is
equal in the Mayan world.
We are not above a rock, or
a plant, or a piece of earth,
or a stone.
We are the same.
>>REGINA: And speaking of stone,
going back to Earth Keeper,
there are other-- other elders
had brought their skulls in too
in 2011, and I
met a few of them.
And each one has a
very different energy
and characteristic, and
I would assume, purpose.
And what is the belief
or understanding
regarding the origins
of where they came from,
who carved them, what
part of the world
they were originally
found in, and so forth?
>>TARPEY: Oh, the physical--
the physical crystal?
>>REGINA: The physical
aspect of them,
and then how that became
conjoined with conscious.
>>TARPEY: Yes.
There have been some crystal
skulls found in the Americas,
in the Aztec lands and Mayan
lands especially, but not--
they're found by people who are
looking in different places,
and some of them cannot be
announced because it would be
repossessed, so I'm not sure.
>>REGINA: OK.
>>TARPEY: There are a lot of
stories and a lot of legends.
And the important thing is
to treat them all the same,
because their skull
intended for the person--
there is a way
that you can draw--
a person can draw
that skull to them.
And for me, it was quite
a shock because I was not
into crystal skulls when I
began at ARE in Virginia Beach.
>>REGINA: Which is
Edgar Cayce's institute.
>>TARPEY: Edgar Cayce's ARE.
And I did a presentation in
New York on the crystal skull.
And there were a few people
in the room because--
but then when they
heard the story
of the legend of
the crystal skull,
then the room
suddenly filled up.
>>REGINA: Well, people
are so fascinated.
I mean, Hollywood did
their version of it.
>>TARPEY: Oh, yes.
>>REGINA: Wasn't one of
the "Raiders of the Lost
Ark" the crystal skulls?
They had 13 skulls there.
>>TARPEY: They didn't
really cover that.
They didn't cover the--
>>REGINA: They didn't cover
it, just that they were there,
and that was the holy grail
of what they were looking for,
these wisdom keepers
from ancient times.
>>TARPEY: And everybody takes
in at a different place.
It's fine.
It all contributes to the
general knowledge of us
all to know our legends.
>>REGINA: Yes.
And the interesting
thing about these skulls,
because they are
also human or ET,
whatever, representation
of a human skull--
>>TARPEY: Yes.
>>REGINA: --I think--
you said they're
all to be treated equal.
>>TARPEY: Yes.
>>REGINA: Now, we have some that
are said to have been imbued
or have come with
knowledge that was even
seeded from some other
star systems eons ago.
>>TARPEY: That's
very possible, yes.
>>REGINA: And at the
same time, if you
take one that was
literally just carved
and you put it with you, or
someone, or a group of people,
these start taking
on that information.
And it's crystal technology.
It stores information.
So they start storing this
individual or collective
information and
become an egregore
in the good sense of the word.
>>TARPEY: Yes.
They start storing
in a different way
in the shape of the skull.
According to the
readings of Edgar Cayce,
the first purpose of crystal's
presence in the Earth
itself is communication
with other dimensions.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>TARPEY: That's his first use.
>>TARPEY: Because it's memory.
It's capable of holding memory.
>>REGINA: It's memory, exactly.
>>TARPEY: And our computer
industry started with that.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
>>TARPEY: And so the
memory can be placed--
they're like recorders.
They are known to be
able to store knowledge.
And they are sacred to the
Maya because they represent--
the skull represents
the most sacred thing
in the Mayan world.
What the cross is
to the Christian,
the skull is to the Maya.
It's the symbol of the sacrifice
of the Christ of the Maya.
The skull represents
the way the twin Christ
history evolved in the Mayan
and the American world.
In most of the American
cultures, ancient cultures,
the Christ is represented
as two boys, twin boys.
>>REGINA: Outside of the
Christian world, you're saying?
>>TARPEY: In the American world,
they're usually twin boys.
But also in Egypt and other
places, it reverberates.
And it also reverberates
in the Bible,
but that's the Mayan way
of looking at the Bible.
Because in the
Bible, Jesus Christ
was anointed to teach
by another person.
I believe it's his cousin,
John, John the Baptist.
>>REGINA: Baptist, yeah.
>>TARPEY: And in the end,
he had his head cut off.
He was beheaded.
So to the Maya, that's
almost the same story.
>>REGINA: Interesting.
I have to say, just going
tangentially for a moment,
one of the most profound
places I've ever been
was the cave of John
the Baptist, which
still-- that cave is there.
It's now housed
within a monastery.
>>TARPEY: Yes.
>>REGINA: And wow.
The information that flows
through that place-- and he
was known to be a seer and
retreat to the mountains
into his cave.
And this was the cave.
>>TARPEY: And so for the Maya--
>>REGINA: Incredible.
>>TARPEY: --he is
the actual Christ.
And the actual Christ
in the Mayan world,
what we think after
a lot of research
is that the original Christ
created a projection of himself
in order to perform the acts
necessary for the sacrifice
that was intended in
the Christian mission.
>>REGINA: Yes.
And I'm intrigued
with this symbolism.
I'm also intrigued with the
way in which crystal works.
>>TARPEY: Yes.
>>REGINA: Because so many
people have stocks of crystal,
but no one knows
what they're for,
how to use them, how to respect
them, how to approach them.
>>TARPEY: Yes.
>>REGINA: And so,
again, to me it's
fascinating that this had
been with these elders
and had absorbed their
body of knowledge,
and belief, and function.
>>TARPEY: Yes.
>>REGINA: And so now let's
get to the part of this story.
You've come with a
whole entity here.
>>TARPEY: Yes.
>>REGINA: And he's come
into the middle of yours
and nobody's life.
What started
happening in your life
to have this third entity imbued
with all this Central South
American ancient wisdom?
>>TARPEY: Well, what happened
was quite miraculous.
It was completely on
the subconscious level.
Once I received the
skull, the Mayan calendar
began to teach me with
greater speed what it's for.
I just started to practice
the Mayan calendar, not out
of any belief system because
I don't believe anything.
I only study.
And it just turned
out that the whole--
when this skull is in presence
with a client receiving a Mayan
calendar, my whole
behavior changes.
I have a formula of what
I'm going to say, a pattern.
And then all of a sudden,
I'm getting information
from the skull that
was very strange to me.
But because I study--
I do what I call shamanic
study, and I do ritual--
then I could trust that voice.
And ritual or ceremony
is the word sacrifice.
You're making a sacrifice, like
an ofrenda, a table, a mesa.
This is a mesa.
And when you make that sacrifice
and you make an offering, what
you're doing, because you
were educated in a science
type of a society,
a modern society,
you are sacrificing
your mind to your heart.
>>REGINA: Yes.
That's a very good point.
>>TARPEY: Yes.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>TARPEY: And so when
you sacrifice your mind
to your heart, your
heart can now speak.
>>REGINA: But it means
the mind sometimes
goes into fear because
it's no longer in control.
>>TARPEY: Yes.
>>REGINA: And this is the battle
that the Western world has,
between the mind and the heart.
>>TARPEY: And the heart is the
first to appear in the embryo.
And the heart takes precedence.
And we will not feel--
we will not succeed
on this Earth
in the job of peace and justice
until we feel the world.
And the Western mind is
tied up with hierarchy.
Because in their
sacred books, they
say that only the
human has a soul.
And the American Indian
had to keep a straight face
when they heard that.
Where did you get that idea?
We're all made from
the same stuff,
the same reservoir of spirit.
And they call that
reservoir [NON-ENGLISH]..
They have a glottal stop.
And it's a reservoir of spirit
that can produce anything.
It's like one of those
Arnold Schwarzkopf movies.
>>REGINA: Schwarzenegger.
>>TARPEY: Schwarzkopf--
Arnold Schwarzenegger movies
where there's this guy made of
metallic stuff that conformed
himself into anything.
>>REGINA: "Terminator."
>>TARPEY: Yes.
That's sort of a visual metaphor
of what I'm talking about.
>>REGINA: He's out,
has a new movie.
>>TARPEY: Oh, wonderful.
>>REGINA: (ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER
VOICE) Arnold is back,
and he's advancing
his consciousness.
>>TARPEY: All right.
You give him a little ad here.
>>REGINA: After being
governor of California.
But yes, I digress.
>>TARPEY: And so anyway, when
the Maya look at the world
they see no hierarchy.
A stone is equal to a human.
A plant is equal to a human.
A piece of earth, a drop
of water in the ocean,
they're all equal.
So therefore we have a
relationship with them.
They're not empty things
that we use or dead things.
They have a direct
part in our evolution.
That's why we use crystals.
And I use pieces
of straw and reeds.
Reeds are very important.
And when you have that,
you lose the arrogance
of the Western mind, because
the Western mind thinks
the human is superior to all.
And that is not
correct, I don't think.
I always say I don't
think because I don't--
>>REGINA: Because you
don't believe anything.
>>TARPEY: I don't believe.
I mentioned--
>>REGINA: And let's just
go ahead and express
what that means, because you
have a very specific concept
around the notion of belief,
that once you form a belief
it closes off inquiry
and exploration.
>>TARPEY: That's right.
Because we are
speaking in German now.
When you speak English,
you're speaking German.
And the word "English"
itself, you have Anglo-Saxon.
Those are the name of
two of the conquering
tribes of the British Isles.
And the Engles in
German is Angle.
And the language they
spoke is Anglisc.
And so our language is the
language of a German tribe,
only it's been influenced
by Latin and Greek,
and other Gaelic, Celtic
terms are in there.
>>REGINA: So is this going
back to the word "belief?"
>>TARPEY: And belief, it
means to be in love, lieben.
>>REGINA: So if you're
in love with something,
then that means you
have attachment.
And if you have
attachment, then you're
only focused that one way.
>>TARPEY: It's an attachment.
It's an attachment.
>>REGINA: I see.
>>TARPEY: And B-E means already
done, completed in German.
"Beliebt"-- I am beloved, or
I totally have this belief.
It's equal to the G-E,
like lernt and gelernt,
I have already learned.
I have already fallen in love.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>TARPEY: I'm married
to this thought.
>>REGINA: So you're
committed to this thought,
and it closes down the option
for further exploration.
>>TARPEY: And it
also means to prefer.
Like if I say, [GERMAN],,
I prefer red wine.
And preference is the
beginning of all corruption.
>>REGINA: Oh, no,
that's interesting.
Because when you
think about it--
I've thought this before too.
And we'll go back where we were,
but this is an important thing.
Once we have-- in the
West we seem to do this,
but it happens all
over the world.
Once we have our preferences set
higher and higher and higher,
possibility, joy, surprise,
being in the moment all
starts collapsing.
>>TARPEY: Correct, yes.
>>REGINA: And then
we're literally not
open to life that's
happening around us.
>>TARPEY: We're
acting on the stage.
We're acting on the stage.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>TARPEY: And what
Ralph Waldo Emerson said
is, "The greatest achievement
that the human can possibly
succeed to is the formation
of their own selves and not
something built by others."
>>REGINA: But in the
case of preferences,
we're often building
those out of our own
either repulsions
or attractions.
>>TARPEY: Yes, yes.
And they're there, and
we come in with them
because of past lives.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>TARPEY: And we have dreams.
>>REGINA: So it's part of
the subconscious baggage.
>>TARPEY: Yes.
It's the subconscious
baggage that we come in with.
>>REGINA: So when we're
talking about preferences
as actually leading
to corruption,
explain what you mean by that.
I can see where it definitely
leads to all limitation.
>>TARPEY: Well,
especially in government.
We have the talented people,
but we prefer our own companies.
but we prefer our brother-in-law
or get one of our
members of our family in.
And then everything goes awry.
>>REGINA: Yes, I see
what you're saying.
>>TARPEY: And preference
is also the inability
to listen to other people
because we're so involved
with a particular group.
We don't listen anymore.
We're loyal.
We prefer that group,
and we gag ourselves
because then we're not
allowed to say what
that group wants us to say.
We have been built
by that group.
And that begins in
high school, formally.
95% of the people in
the world, in my view,
have never graduated
from high school
because they're still
in the same groups.
They go to their companies.
They go to the government.
And they join the groups.
And we've all met those
groups and organizations.
They sort of bite at each
other and pull the legs out
from each other in struggling
for the attention and the love
of the owner of the company
or the highest official,
struggling to be favored.
>>REGINA: So thank you for
explaining that in more detail.
And I'm with you on that, the
whole thing of preference.
Because I've noticed in
my own life even where
I'll start getting a
lot of preferences.
I don't like this, or
I want this this way,
or I want this this way.
You're setting yourself
up to be at odds
with the world for
disappointment,
because the world doesn't
have your set of preferences.
>>TARPEY: That's right.
>>REGINA: And so everything's
bumping up against you,
and you're constantly
ticked off because it's not
ticking your boxes.
And it's just such
a difficult way
to live and experience life.
Plus, the impulses
coming in constantly
from both the higher mind,
and the subconscious mind,
and the world
around us are being
ignored because they're
striving so hard to simply live
our set of preferences.
>>TARPEY: Yes.
And we are careful what
we say because if we
say the wrong thing
in the group, then
we go to the periphery.
We are not in the
center anymore.
And we derive so much
advantages from the group
because we are basket cases
of trauma as human beings.
>>REGINA: We are.
And that's where we're going
to go next in the conversation.
>>TARPEY: OK, yeah.
>>REGINA: And let's talk about
the factors that have made us
need to cling to norms, to cling
to one another who we prefer,
and to be deaf to
those we do not prefer.
>>TARPEY: Yes, yes.
We're so vulnerable when
we come in, struggling,
competing with siblings
for love and attention.
And I got this, as I
mentioned to you before--
one day, I saw two over
70-year-old siblings
arguing with each other
over who mommy loved best.
It never stops.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>TARPEY: It's
way deep in there.
And it causes such--
it makes us so competitive.
And that's why it's so important
to find ourselves and the love
of ourselves within.
And then we're on first base.
>>REGINA: If you want to
look at it in other cycles,
we look at large calamities
that have happened to the Earth
also, creating incredible mass
trauma of not even knowing
if the land you stand
on on a very deep level
will be there an hour from now.
>>TARPEY: Exactly.
You took it to the
bigger picture, yes.
>>REGINA: The great
deluge and so forth.
>>TARPEY: Yes.
>>REGINA: We all
carry that great--
most of us carry that
great trauma with us--
>>TARPEY: It's not a safe place.
>>REGINA: --our own survival.
Yeah.
>>TARPEY: It was not designed
as a comfortable place.
It's awesome.
And the Maya I appreciated
that awesomeness, that beauty,
because it's scary and
beautiful at the same time.
>>REGINA: You call it a
rawness, that Earth life
offers a very raw experience.
>>TARPEY: It's a raw experience.
And because of it--
and looking at it objectively,
one thing eats the other here.
And so it is not--
it's designed--
as Edgar Cayce-- through
the readings of Edgar Cayce
it came out, the name
Laboratory Earth.
It is designed by
something or somebody.
That, I see.
It is exquisitely intelligent.
The more we look at
it-- we talked before
about our human body
that runs itself.
We don't do anything.
Our consciousness
doesn't do anything,
and animals have
the same function.
And yet it's
totally intelligent,
but automatically intelligent.
And that's why animals
are equal to us
and the American
Indians consider animals
the first people.
And we live by the standard
of coyote, the trickster.
Coyote wound up doing things--
it's almost like when I give
a Mayan calendar reading.
People are like the coyote
of the American Indian
because they're actually
doing the right thing,
but they don't know it.
So when I do the Mayan
calendar reading,
I look at all of
what they've done.
And they're already there.
They're already pointing the
way towards their shamanship.
And their shamanship
has to be independent.
They must become a self.
So they must plan their
escape from organizations,
because organizations
have the groups.
And it's very difficult
to be yourself
when you're economically
independent-- you're not
independent.
>>REGINA: Yeah, dependent
on the organization.
>>TARPEY: And so that's why
the Maya have a ball game
court at every site.
You're playing the ball
game against death.
And death is something
that will just
make you go corrupt
spiritually more quickly.
And you must be a trickster
in that game in order to win,
because the twins--
there was a second set of
twins born from the first.
And they were the tricksters.
And they played the ball
game, and they tricked death.
And because they tricked death,
death had less power over them.
>>REGINA: And it seems
that all of humanity
is always trying to trick death.
It doesn't matter which
culture because we're
living in an animal
body that fears
for its own survival on a very,
very deep, unconscious level.
>>TARPEY: Exactly.
We always want to
survive, but we always
have to work on
the fear of death.
I'm getting older now,
and I'm not immune to it.
And so that's what
this west is for.
The west place is--
the Egyptians always buried
their dead on the west bank.
That's where the sun went down.
And there's the idea that you
will go back into the earth,
and you will be cleansed.
>>REGINA: And come up in
the east on the sunrise.
>>TARPEY: And come
up in the east again,
yes, in another
lifetime, but this time
more cleansed by all the
intelligence of Earth.
>>REGINA: And let's go
back to that a moment.
>>TARPEY: Yes.
>>REGINA: Give us a
little history lesson--
I mean, it's obvious
on one level,
but let's just articulate it.
>>TARPEY: Yes.
>>REGINA: A history
lesson of what
happened when humanity
started disconnecting itself
from natural systems of
the Earth, from nature,
and started putting
ourselves above everything
else on this planet.
>>TARPEY: Well, it
speeds up when we
make advances in material life.
Hunter-gatherers, for
them everything is equal.
You'll notice the drawings
in the ancient French caves--
>>REGINA: They're
40,000 years old.
>>TARPEY: --paleolithic
era, the respect
in how they drew the
animal because they
knew that the animal
was created for them.
It was natural that
that was their food.
And they respected the animal,
and they would waste nothing.
And so the word
"respect" is Latin--
R-E, again, S-P-E-C-T, like
spectacles, a spectator,
to look, spectare,
to look again.
And so when you don't
respect something,
you don't give it a second look.
You're above it.
You have nothing to do with it.
And the American
Indian, the reason
I wound up studying
them so much is I've
never seen a culture
in the modern world
that has saved that idea of
the equality of all things.
And the people of the West
have a choice to make.
Are they going to
believe or take
the basic assumption that
comes from the epitome of it
in the Sistine Chapel, the
painting by Michelangelo.
>>REGINA: God.
>>TARPEY: Of the macho
man god in the sky,
extending his hand and
fingers to the macho man,
representative of the
Earth and imparting soul.
We have a choice
between that and ask
as the American Indian
asked, isn't our intelligence
coming from our food?
Isn't the plant the
only independent source
of making food?
Isn't it the one that is
giving us our intelligence?
But it's not-- it's
embedded in everything.
Everything is
completely intelligent
because it's all made
of the same material,
but it doesn't have
the voice as we have.
Because according to
the Mayan records,
the voice was very
important at this time
for what we would call the
fourth root race in whatever
the divine plan is.
But we cannot take
ourselves that seriously.
The environment
is very important.
And if we lose our
sensitivity to it,
we will destroy
ourselves as we've
done through civilization,
after civilization,
after civilization.
And what's the
definition of insanity?
Doing the same thing
again and again
and expecting a
different result.
>>REGINA: Well,
we're consistent.
>>TARPEY: Yes, very consistent.
>>REGINA: We're on track
to do the same thing again.
Let's take it back to nature.
And one thing I don't think you
and I have ever talked about,
which I feel very close affinity
with, is the trees and, for me,
particularly the giant redwood
trees and the coastal redwood
trees.
>>TARPEY: Oh, give
me chills now.
>>REGINA: I just love them.
And I think back to the wisdom
that was held and utilized
during the Atlantean times
and how after the deluge
that that wisdom went through
the precursors to the druids
and remained, went
into the Celtic lands.
And they sat at the
side of each king
because they still had
knowledge, vision, and wisdom.
But the tree was
their actual alphabet.
Their alphabet, every letter
was based on a species of tree.
And so let's talk about--
>>TARPEY: Especially the oak.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>TARPEY: They loved the oak.
>>REGINA: So let's
talk about the kingdom
of this overstory
of trees that was
once in greater
supply on this planet
and the diminishment of that
in the Amazon and so forth.
>>TARPEY: Yes, yes.
And for the Maya, the
tree of life, the ceiba
tree or the "keiba" tree--
I forget how they
pronounce it in Spanish--
it is the tree of life.
The root's from the
underworld, where
we came from, because the
plants are clean and beautiful.
There's no hell.
It's just a testing
place, a cleansing place
underneath there, according
to the American Indian.
And our roots come from
underneath the earth
because we eat the plants.
Then we have the
trunk that is here
on the surface and then
the leaves that extend
toward the sky, the heavens.
So it becomes a symbol of
us and our cosmos, the tree,
and how huge--
when you look at
them, the branches,
they look like human
beings extending upward.
Did you ever look at
the tree like that?
>>REGINA: Oh, absolutely.
I do.
And I look at the saguaro
cactus like that in Arizona.
>>TARPEY: The saguaro, yes.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
And I was once told that the
trees, what we don't understand
is they live in
generations of families
with passed on knowledge too.
>>TARPEY: Yes.
>>REGINA: And when you do
clear cutting, for example,
you cut down all that wisdom.
And the trees that are just
now planted in tree farms
never grow with
the same integrity,
strength, immune
system because they
have no parental
passed-on knowledge.
>>TARPEY: And
there's no respect.
>>REGINA: And no
respect for them.
>>TARPEY: No respect.
And if there's no
respect, they're
wasting because they
want to accumulate.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>TARPEY: And that's what caused
the problems after the hunting
and gathering age.
They started to grow crops,
and they had extra time.
And they began to trade.
And some people were lucky
because of their position
or there's some skills
that they have borne,
and they began to
become more prosperous.
And then you had the
rise of higher classes.
And therefore you
have the lower class,
and that's where it begins--
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>TARPEY: --the
accumulation of wealth.
And they begin to
worship the sun,
whereas the ancients
worshipped the Milky Way.
It was wide across
the sky at night.
But the civilization's
like the sun
because the only thing you
can see in the sky is the sun.
And so the king likes
the symbol of the sun.
>>REGINA: Well,
egoically, it serves--
>>TARPEY: Yeah, ego.
>>REGINA: Wear a little
crown, sun crown on your head.
>>TARPEY: Only see me like Louis
XIV, the sun king, [FRENCH]..
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>TARPEY: I am the state.
>>REGINA: And holy cow--
>>TARPEY: I am the whole thing.
>>REGINA: --talk about
history repeating itself,
I think we're
experiencing the same.
>>TARPEY: We're
in that same time.
>>REGINA: The state
is me, l'tat est moi.
>>TARPEY: And I find
it in Chinese history
over and over again in the Xia
dynasty, the first dynasty,
[CHINESE].
And then in the next dynasty,
the Shang dynasty, [CHINESE]..
And it all became about them
and their life in the palace.
And the people didn't matter
anymore because they became
the people who deserve, not the
people who serve, "de-serve."
>>REGINA: "De-serve," yes.
>>TARPEY: And that's the tenor.
And many ancient
civilizations presented
us ways to stop that influence,
that thing from happening.
And so you go down to
Peru and you see the Maya,
and you see their pyramids,
and especially Peru
because the pyramids
had-- well, the Maya too.
They had a central
pyramid and then two
on the side, the triad monument.
And you notice
especially in Peru,
one side is more elaborate,
and the other side isn't.
In other words,
the upper classes--
the mediating place
was the middle temple.
And the two arms represented the
poorer and the richer classes.
And the way they redistributed
the wealth was the rich people
would pay for the parties.
And you found
loads of offerings,
and there were feasts.
And that's how the
wealth was redistributed.
And that's how some
civilization achieved success.
And that's what I look for when
I study history, like at Caral,
C-A-R-A-L, in Peru--
no weapons found.
>>REGINA: Well, it's
interesting because more recent
archaeological
digs and such have
found gleaming
cities in the Amazon
that were just grown over
and many, many, many pyramids
in the Amazon.
They're just buried
under the sands of time.
And this is all over the planet.
>>TARPEY: Yes.
And according to the Indian,
the Asian Indian sources,
the yugas, we are way
older than we think we are.
>>REGINA: Oh, yes.
>>TARPEY: Because a lot
has been rubbed out,
like Atlantis is moving
underneath Europe now.
And they call it
Adria, A-D-R-I-A.
And Mu/Lemuria is now underneath
the United States and South
America.
And that's why Edgar
Cayce said Mount Shasta is
such a special place, because
of the crystals in the caves
under there from Mu/Lemuria.
>>REGINA: Interesting.
So essentially you're
saying that sunken landmass,
that tectonic plate
has moved under--
>>TARPEY: Has moved under.
>>REGINA: --ours in California.
>>TARPEY: Yes.
We are now Mu--
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>TARPEY: --the vibration
coming up from the bottom.
>>REGINA: OK.
Now that's the first time I've
heard anyone state it that way.
I have not been
exposed to that before.
>>TARPEY: Yeah, yeah.
>>REGINA: OK.
So that gives me a
greater understanding
of why everybody keeps
saying California
is the new Mu or Lemuria.
>>TARPEY: And I realized
it when I went to Lima.
Because in order to
get to the beach,
you have to walk
down 300, 400 steps
because it's constantly rising.
>>REGINA: OK.
>>TARPEY: Our mountain ranges
can be seen, the Rockies
and also the Andes.
It's all being
pushed and folded.
>>REGINA: OK.
Now let's go back to Atlantis.
>>TARPEY: Yes.
>>REGINA: Because
Edgar Cayce said that
within a reasonable period
of time, not that distant
in the future, that
Atlantis would rise again.
Now other seers
have also validated
that Atlanta will rise again.
>>TARPEY: Yes.
>>REGINA: But how does this work
if it's tucked under Europe?
>>TARPEY: Atlantis
will rise again.
I think it's more--
>>REGINA: Do they
mean metaphorically?
>>TARPEY: --the technology.
>>REGINA: OK.
Because he was saying the
landmass would rise again.
>>TARPEY: Yes, yes, yes.
But Atlantis is here also.
Because what happens when
a civilization goes down,
the first to run
are the shamans.
Get out of there.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>TARPEY: Because
people get into--
>>REGINA: After the
elephants and everyone
else that have some sense.
>>TARPEY: Yes.
Because they know a society
is getting into group think.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>TARPEY: I saw that most
clearly when I watched
the movie "The Crucible"
by Arthur Miller,
what happened during the witch
trials when they were just
accusing everybody, and you
could not present any evidence,
and they were just--
and the hopelessness that
happens to a society,
it is huge.
>>REGINA: But Raymond,
it feels like that's
happening right now.
>>TARPEY: Yeah.
>>REGINA: And it's happening
all over the planet.
>>TARPEY: Yes.
>>REGINA: In the US, you
have such polarized factions
of people who used to be
able to discuss things.
Like even if it was
impolite in polite society
to discuss religion and
politics, you could do it,
and you wouldn't end
up bloodied at the end,
or walking out, or
in a field of hatred.
Now we're so polarized
that can't even take place.
>>TARPEY: Yes.
>>REGINA: But it's
true all over,
this phenomena of
turning to institution
and strong arm people is
happening all over the planet.
>>TARPEY: And because they're
all civilizations and that
moderns civilizations, the
ones that we know, are--
it's really like a spear.
But the religion
is the snake that
wraps itself around the spear,
and moves along, and attacks.
And it's really--
>>REGINA: And it's in league
with the politics in the world
right now.
>>TARPEY: It's in league
with the politics.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>TARPEY: And so here, you'll
have religious backing,
certain religious backing.
And it's usually
right-wing religious people
who believe in an idol.
And when I talk to people
in the Mayan calendar,
using the vehicle of
the Mayan calendar,
I try to tell them the
clear truth of history.
And the Bible and any book by
its own rule cannot portend
to be the only word of God
because it's made by the hand
of man.
>>REGINA: The Bible
itself is how many--
over 20,000 renditions
in terms of translations,
interpretations, and edits.
>>TARPEY: Yes, yes.
>>REGINA: So, yes.
>>TARPEY: So what
they did was get
rid of everybody
else's idol, but kept
the biggest one for themselves.
>>REGINA: And this is classic.
It happens.
Now let's-- I want to broaden it
out and drill down at the same
time.
So we're in this
state now globally
of intensifying energy and
polarization between people.
>>TARPEY: Yes.
>>REGINA: Which is interesting,
because a study was done--
and I don't have it in front
of me so I can't source it,
but this was the nature of it.
And this is relatively recently.
It was done to look at
the social proclivities
and beliefs of liberal groups
and conservative groups.
And it asked questions
that had to do
with how societies ordered
preferences and so forth.
Doing the test straight
up, the conservatives
answered as you would
expect, and the liberals
answered as you would expect.
But then they were
asked to run things
through the opposite lens.
So they asked a group
of conservatives,
now imagine that everything
has been provided you.
You're living a life that
is full and has plenty.
You don't have to struggle
for your basic needs anymore.
Now with that feeling
and understanding,
we want you to take this test.
They took the same test.
They answered like the liberals.
They did the exact same thing
with the liberals and said,
now imagine there's not enough.
Maybe you're struggling to
pay your next month's bills
or whatever it was that
they felt threatened by.
The liberals answered
like conservatives.
So conservation
and conservatism is
based on fear of either losing,
letting go, loss of some kind.
>>TARPEY: Yeah.
>>REGINA: So it appears as this
rabid polarization of views
happens that there is
a huge amount of fear
driving it and certainly driving
the conservative half of it
by nature of the word in itself.
What's happening?
What's influencing
and driving this?
Is it our disconnect from
nature that's so severe now?
What is it?
>>TARPEY: We're
in our own minds,
and we don't know
what enough is.
I remember the movie "Key Largo"
years ago with Humphrey Bogart
and Edward G. Robinson.
Edward G. Robinson played Al
Capone hiding away in Florida.
And the fellow in
the wheelchair--
I forget his name--
but he asked Al Capone in the
movie, why are you doing this?
Why are you controlling
everybody and using everybody?
Don't you have enough?
You have everything.
And Bogart answered the
question with that usual sneer.
And he said, I
know what he wants.
He wants more.
And Capone said,
that's it, more.
>>REGINA: Well, that happened
in a more recent film
too having to do with the story
of the kidnapping of J. Paul
Getty's Grandson.
And he wouldn't give the money.
>>TARPEY: Yes, yes.
>>REGINA: And so finally
someone said, basically you
have more money than God, as
a saying, more money than God.
He had palaces filled with
the most exquisite artworks
and antiques from around
the world, and artifacts.
And they said, what is it?
Don't you have enough?
And he said, there's
never enough.
>>TARPEY: It's never enough.
>>REGINA: So now if
these are our gods,
these men in this world, just
like the Chinese empirical
system to want to be like
the emperor, like god,
same in the rest of the world
to be like a movie star,
like a well-known politician
or business entrepreneur
that's extraordinarily wealthy,
and for them enough is never
enough--
and if those are actually
our cultural gods--
>>TARPEY: And we're feeding it.
We're feeding it all the time.
And we have no more
effective system
of redistributing the wealth.
That's what makes society run.
We have a distribution problem.
And we've had it in
every civilization.
They all fall for
the same reason.
>>REGINA: It seems a pattern,
a pattern in human nature.
>>TARPEY: Yes, yes.
And in the year 494 BC in Rome,
the soldiers refused to fight.
That's the only thing
at the grassroots level,
or the people walk
out of Rome and said,
we're forming a
different country
because the rich have controlled
everything, the patricians.
And the plebes walked out.
That's how you get a republic,
because the people at the grass
roots have to say
enough is enough--
enough is enough.
>>REGINA: Is the US,
for example, still
a republic in the truest
sense of the word?
>>TARPEY: The US has
never been a republic.
>>REGINA: OK, explain that.
>>TARPEY: It has never been.
I have to tell the truth about--
because they've been educated
with the books of history
made by the empire.
>>REGINA: This is true.
>>TARPEY: And education
is Latin also.
E means E-X, to go out.
D-U-C is the word for leader.
Lead out, not stuff in.
>>REGINA: Education,
and it's all stuff in.
>>TARPEY: They are stuffing
you with information
that they want you to have
so they can pull the string.
And it has to be
really tight in order
to get you to go out and kill
people you never even met.
They need a tight
program with religion
and political information
that has been warped.
>>REGINA: And belief-- belief.
>>TARPEY: Belief system, yeah.
There's our essential
human problem.
And we're repeating, but every
repeat is an opportunity.
>>REGINA: OK.
So let's look at it from a
Mayan and a Mayan calendar
point of view.
But different people
are watching it
from astrological
points of view,
but let's talk about the Mayan
point of view and this period
we're in right now, what
the challenge and danger is,
and also what the incredible
hidden opportunity is.
>>TARPEY: Yes.
Well, the first thing that
comes to mind is the k'atun.
Since 2012, 2013, we are
in the first 20 years.
And the number 20 is the other
sacred number of the calendar.
It means the shaman, but it
also is increment of time,
of change.
And each one has a name.
And we are now in
the name of tun ahau.
The k'atun-- they
all are named ahau.
That's the number 20.
But it's the tun plus the ahau.
And that k'atun is known
for half scarcity and half
prosperity.
>>REGINA: That's
polarized right there.
[LAUGHTER]
>>TARPEY: And then we're
moving in by the year 2032,
2033 to all is lost,
invasion by foreign powers.
It's the worst 20 years that
are in the 13 sets of years.
>>REGINA: Coming up in 2032?
>>TARPEY: 2032, 2033.
>>REGINA: OK.
>>TARPEY: Reminds
me of 1933, 1932.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
Is this global, or is
this specific to regions?
>>TARPEY: For the Maya,
it was their world.
That's how theirs works.
And it's to be considered.
And so I take it in the
context where it's in,
but it looks like
the whole world
is doing the same thing now.
Dictators are on the rise.
>>REGINA: Yes, absolutely.
>>TARPEY: India, look at them.
>>REGINA: Yeah, yeah.
>>TARPEY: Yeah.
I just had a dream of
Palestine last night.
>>REGINA: Oh.
>>TARPEY: And it scared me.
>>REGINA: I'm so sensitive about
that issue, having been there.
>>TARPEY: I know.
>>REGINA: What did you see?
>>TARPEY: Oh, I
saw hopelessness.
>>REGINA: As if
it isn't already.
>>TARPEY: And I saw people
digging caves to escape
underneath because it's--
things are happening there that
are making people second class.
>>REGINA: Oh.
>>TARPEY: Second-class citizens.
>>REGINA: It's so dire.
>>TARPEY: And it's-- the
hopelessness, I feel it.
>>REGINA: I've never been
more depressed in my life
spontaneously than walking
through the wall into Ramallah
and the rubble, the
devastation-- not a plant, not
a tree.
And the first person I saw was
a man with these dark, dark eyes
holding an orange in
one hand and used baby
socks in the other,
trying to sell them
because unemployment is so--
>>TARPEY: Yeah.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>TARPEY: And the whole Bible--
if you look at the Old
Testament of the Bible,
it's probably a group of a
military group like Pizarro
and Cortes that
came from Babylon
with a lot of political
savvy from after thousands
of years of war.
And they came with a trick--
God said your land is my land.
And we've been operating on
that for thousands of years.
>>REGINA: OK.
So you mentioned earlier on--
and let's get into this part
of it--
that these cycles persist.
And they persist as a
result of, on one hand,
a lack of our ability to
expand, and grow, and learn
on a psychospiritual level.
So we keep repeating
these mistakes,
that when given something
and desiring more, and more,
and more, you end up in
corrupt cultures globally.
And then it seems that either
that culture, that civilization
will fall, or there
can actually be
a situation such as a deluge,
which has happened repeatedly,
wipe it all out.
There's good news in that.
I mean, there's still
some hopeful news in that.
But wipe it out,
start clean again.
>>TARPEY: But you don't want
to go through that period.
>>REGINA: You don't want
to go through it again.
We don't want that, to
go through this repeat.
And it seems that it all has
to do with what you said.
We become arrogant, lack
humility, put ourselves
above everything, live
totally out of balance
to scale with everything that
the Earth's intelligence feeds
us.
>>TARPEY: And each person
has their responsibility
of work in this era.
My responsibility is through
the Mayan calendar, where
I try to give people
the clear truth,
and I try to explain
to them that all of us
are charged to become the
shaman, every single person.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>TARPEY: And we're all
given unique gifts, gifts
that are already
explanatory when
I look at their past history.
They've already been
doing it, like coyote.
[LAUGHS]
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>TARPEY: They've
already been doing it.
So all I do is
have to just remind
them of what they studied,
what they've done,
and then give them
a few techniques.
And the important thing
is shamanic reading.
And shamanic reading-- reading
is going down in the world
because of--
>>REGINA: Oh, yes.
>>TARPEY: --the electronic
age, the computer age.
>>REGINA: The attention span
has been reduced as well.
>>TARPEY: And they don't
have the relationship
with the written word
anymore like people
of the ancient times
and the respect of it.
And so when I read a book,
I read it three, four times.
I thought I knew.
I didn't know.
>>REGINA: How many times--
bring these over.
We only have a few minutes
left, but what incredible books
you've brought with us.
>>TARPEY: Here's a book I'm
reading about the Kojiki
Monogatari.
And it's one of the
oldest books in Japan.
And I read through it.
And I look up every
word in Japanese.
And then I take notes--
oh, this is different.
Make it personal.
Make it yours.
Get in there, because the
truth is not in the words.
It's in and among the words.
It's the crystal
thoughts that come
to you that you write there.
>>REGINA: And it doesn't matter
what texts you're drawn to--
>>TARPEY: No.
>>REGINA: --that speak to you.
>>REGINA: It can be the Quran.
It can be the Bible.
It can be the Torah.
It can be ancient druidic text.
It doesn't matter.
>>TARPEY: Because
the Bible has truth.
They all have truth.
>>REGINA: But you have to
really have the discernment
to excavate the truth for
your level of understanding
in the moment,
because that's always
changing and progressing.
>>TARPEY: And it cannot
only be in one culture.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>TARPEY: I study as many
cultures in the world--
I study South Sea Island, Japan,
China, the Maya, Rome, England,
looking at every single empire
and not blaming, no judging.
We're all the same.
Our species--
>>REGINA: We've all made
these same mistakes.
>>TARPEY: --has
a huge challenge.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>TARPEY: And it's not
our job to judge anybody.
It's our job to tell
the truth and our job
to find that truth so
that we will know which
one to pick in our government.
>>REGINA: Yes.
And what's happened is
because we have created
a situation where we're not
each getting enough of the pie,
apparently, that creates
a sense of lack and fear.
We have started selling out
our own true principles,
our own ethics in order
to be able to sustain
our own little, mini
kingdoms of our own.
And I've said this
when I've done
lectures at various
conferences, where
have we been the ones
that have sold ourselves--
>>TARPEY: That's right.
>>REGINA: --and our partners,
and our family, and our friends
out?
>>TARPEY: We've all
been part of it.
I'm to blame too.
>>REGINA: We all are.
>>TARPEY: We're all to blame.
>>REGINA: And we want to
blame the people at the top.
>>TARPEY: No.
>>REGINA: But where have
we compromised our ethics?
>>TARPEY: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
And we've allowed it to
happen because we don't know.
And the conversation
now in government
is like a pack of teenagers
when I first reached puberty
and we started going
out with girls--
oh, he's bad, he doesn't know
anything, and he's impolite,
and all this reality
show type of conversation
among people that do not read.
There's no past, and
there's no future.
There's only the
present of insanity.
>>REGINA: So we, as the
citizens of this world,
we don't want to go down a
similar path we had before.
We don't need that.
So we have to
begin understanding
the wisdom, and
beauty, and everything
around us, the Earth.
>>TARPEY: At the grass roots.
>>REGINA: At the grass roots.
>>TARPEY: To each other.
We are healers and
counselors to each other.
And my job is activating shamans
through the Mayan calendar
and that work.
But your job is
pulling information
from people, which
you are a master at.
Thank you so much.
It's my privilege to
be with you again.
>>REGINA: Well, you
said goodbye on cue
because we're just
now out of time.
[LAUGHTER]
Thank you for that, Raymond.
Of course, we didn't
get to anything
in this three-page script.
We pretty much talked
about other things,
which I'm very grateful
for because that's
what we always do.
It takes its own way.
And so, again, I think
these are very wise words,
as a warning on one hand, but
also always the opportunity
is embedded in the warning.
>>TARPEY: That's right.
And keep up hope.
The only thing we have--
>>REGINA: Yes, absolutely.
>>TARPEY: --the Buddhists
call it a little, silver cord.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>TARPEY: And it is a string
of hope that you always have.
And the only way you can be
defeated is to lose hope.
>>REGINA: Agreed.
>>TARPEY: Yeah.
>>REGINA: We're totally in sync.
And I'm sure earthkeeper
would validate that too
or is validating that.
Thank you, Raymond--
>>TARPEY: That was so great.
Thank you.
>>REGINA: --as always.
It's been wonderful.
>>TARPEY: Wow.
>>REGINA: As you said,
we've been around many times
together.
>>TARPEY: It's magic, yeah.
>>REGINA: To connect
with the well of wisdom
you've just been
experiencing, you
can go to raymondtarpey.com.
Until next time, thank you for
joining us on "Open Minds."
[MUSIC PLAYING]